Phoenix TODO List
=================

This is just a place for me to jot down things as I think of them.
The items are in no particular order, and the fact that something is
on this list does not mean that it will ever actually be done.
Additionally, no meaning should be attached to items being removed
from this file, it could mean that items have been done or just that
I've decided that they will not be done or no longer apply.



For all new etg files
---------------------
    * Use a filename that matches the wxWidgets/interface/wx file name
      that the classes and other stuff is being loaded from.  This
      means that there will be lots of very small files in etg, but it
      will help to find the interface header source to compare what is
      being declared there with what is being generated, and to better
      understand what may need tweaked in the etg script file.

    * Read the coresponding interface file and ensure that all classes
      declared in it are listed in the ITEMS list in the etg file,
      unless the class should not be wrapped for some reason.  Other
      items from the interface file will be included automatically.

    * Do not list classes from other interface files in the etg file.

    * Check for any extras added to each class in Classic wxPython and
      evaluate whether the same extras should be added to the Phoenix
      verison.  For example, there may be additional C methods added
      on to the class with %extend or %pythoncode that need to be
      carried over to Phoenix, such as __nonzero__, etc.  Also look
      for methods where Classic indicates that ownership should be
      transfered, or other special directives.

    * Check for backwards compatibility issues with Classic wxPython
      and document in the MigrationGuide.  (This file is still in the
      Classic wxPython source tree.)  Compatibility issues resulting
      from not renaming all the overloads can probably be left
      undocumented, we'll probably be adding some of them back as
      deprecated methods eventually, and the programmers should be
      able to figure out the rest once they've started porting some
      code. 

    * For window classes check if there are other virtual methods
      besides those added in addWindowVirtuals() that should also be
      added back.

    * UNITTESTS!  Create a unit test script in the unitests folder
      using the same base file name.  It should at least check that
      every non-abstract class can be constructed, and should also
      have tests for things that are added or tweaked in the etg
      script.  Other things that needed no tweaks are ok to be left
      untested for the time being, although porting over some of the 
      the old unitest code from Classic would also be a good idea, but
      priority should be given to testing those things that had to be
      tweaked or etc.



Handling the GIL
----------------
Currenlty nothing is set for how to deal with the GIL, so there is no
release and reaquire happening yet, meaning that threads will be
blocked while control is in the C++ code.  There are some
possibilities to be considered.

    * Classic wxPython would wrap **every** call to a C++ function in
      GIL release/reaquire code.  Later on I added the ability to not
      do that for specific classes or methods (those known to not
      block, take a "long" time, or that could result in a callback.)
      This likely missed many places that could have benefitted from
      not dealing with the GIL.  Should the same approach be taken
      with Phoenix?  Or should the default be to not release/aquire
      the GIL and we'll have to turn it on for classes or functions
      that need it?  If so we could automatically turn it on for
      Window classes and that would probably take care of most of the
      places that must have it.

    * Take a look at what SIP does when it makes callbacks for virtual
      methods.  We'll need to do the same thing in the EventThunker
      and anywhere else that we're doing callbacks ourselves.  NOTE:
      Currently there is some Classic code alread in use there.  I
      need to at least verify that it is doing the right thing...

    * Can we reuse the GIL handling functions from Classic wxPython or
      do they need to be rewritten?


Exceptions
----------
    * Can we convert C++ exceptions to Python exceptions?
    * Can we propagate Python exceptions over C++ blocks?
    * Should we?  (Classic doesn't.)


PyAssertionError
----------------
    Implement the ability to raise an exception when an assert in wx
    is triggered.


SIP
----
    * Patch SIP to remove leading space from %Docstring items?  Not
      really needed but will help our generated .sip files be more
      pretty and easier to read. I've asked Phil about it and so far
      he seems a bit reluctant.  "Sip has no business messing about
      with the user's text formatting."


build.py
--------
    * Update wscript to support some of the same (or similar) options
      we have with setup.py.
    * Change from using a --waf option to being a "waf" command like
      the other build.py commands, and assume that any other items on
      the command line after the waf command are to be passed on the
      waf command line when it is run.  If there are not any other
      items on the command line then use a default set of waf
      commands. 

    * When writing generated C++ files from the temp dir to sip/cpp
      allow optionally stripping out the lines starting with "#line".
      Those are handy when we need to step through code in the
      debugger, but could cause differences in files that are
      otherwise identical to their prior version, which means some
      unnecesary rebuilds.



etg/pen.py
----------
    * Add new implementations of Get|SetDashes that use wxArrayInt.
      SetDashes will likely need some black magic like what was done in
      Classic wxPython.
   

etg/menu.py
------------
    * Figure out what to do about the MSW-only methods in wxMenuItem


wxProgressDialog
----------------
    * Add wxGenericProgressDialog.
    * and wxProgressDialog inherits from the generic version


Generated Unitests
------------------
    * Autogenerate a skeleton unittest module for each etg module.
    * It can traverse the items in the module object and use a test
      template based on what kind of item it is.  Templates could
      include toplevel window tests, non-toplevel window, event
      binder, event class, etc.
    * If the file already exists then don't overwrite it.  Or perhaps
      we could have a "# AUTOGENERATED" tag in the file that means that
      it can be overwritten.  If a human wants to take over the file and
      add additional tests then they just need to remove that tag.



Deprecated C++ items
---------------------
    * Does Doxygen have a standard way to mark items as deprecated
      that will also be tagged as such in the XML?



WingIDE support
---------------
WingIDE (and maybe other IDEs too?) has the ability to display
docstrings and other helps for items that are not Python code but in
binary extension modules, which have less info available via
introspection. The way this is handled is Wing is able to read info
from python-like .pi files that are basically just stubs that show the
docstrings and APIs of classes and methods, but with no real code.  We
should probably generate a set of these files for everything in our
extension modules.  We have all the info needed in the etg scripts, so
it could be just another generator that it runs.



Daily builds and releases
-------------------------
We now have a buildbot for Phoenix located at http://buildbot.wxpython.org:8010.

We should update the scripts so it not only does builds and testing,
but also makes distributable binaries so some of the wxPython-dev
folks can play with the bleeding edge versions without needing to be
able to do full builds themselves. Specifically, we should:
  
  * Make sure that Phoenix files are installed such that they do not
    clobber any wxPython Classic installed files.

  * Do not install a .pth file so Classic will remain the default "wx"
    that is imported.

  * Provide a script that can be run to display the installed versions
    of Classic and Phoenix and allow the user to select which should
    be imported by default with "import wx".  It will do this simply
    by writing a new wx.pth file in an appropriate location.  It
    should be able to deal with the path hackery that was used on Macs
    to allow wxPython to be used with either Apple Python or
    Python.org Pythons.

  * Make sure that the selection script can also be used in a
    virtualenv.  On the Mac we may want to enable the script to also
    do the stuff needed to make the framework Python work correctly as
    shown at http://wiki.wxpython.org/wxPythonVirtualenvOnMac

  * To begin with the binaries produced do not need to be very
    elaborate like Classic currently uses.  Perhaps just a .zip file
    with instructions of how/where to install would be good enough in
    the early stages, since our targe audience at the beginning will
    be techie users that don't mind the bleeding edge and have the
    know-how to deal with it.  Smarter more capable binaries or
    installers can be added over time as needed.

  * The making of a distributable build could simply be yet another
    command handled by build.py.  Perhaps another command can be used
    to upload the binary to whatever server they will be distributed
    from. 



Namespace Diff Tool
-------------------
I think that this will be more than just a diff tool, but for now that
is the only name that comes to mind.  The general idea is that the
tool can be used to help us discover differences between different
versions of wxPython, such as Classic vs. Phoenix, or even between
different iterations of Phoenix.  The tool would be used to help us
identify what is missing and still needs to be implemented, or what is
new, etc.  The granularity would be items at the module level, and
items within each class, such as methods and properties.  I don't
think it would be worth the effort to compare things like function
signatures or docstrings because the effort to do that may be large.
But maybe it could record whether a docstring is present to help us
track down items that need them added.

Here is a basic workflow and any other ideas that come up along the
way:

  * Since the tool will be dealing with multiple versions of wxPython
    (although nothing should prevent this from being used for other
    packages as well), including historical versions, then the tool
    will not be able to do a live introspection and compare.  Instead
    it should be able to do an introspection and source analysys of a
    specified package and record the results in a database or perhaps
    an XML file.  The things it should be able to record are the
    package/module names, the names and perhaps the types of all top
    level items in a module, the names of all items in each class,
    whether modules, classes, methods, functions have docstrings, etc.

  * The scan and analisys should recursively descend to include all
    modules within the specified package.  Any imports of packages or
    modules located outside of the target package can be ignored.

  * When the scan is finished all the data can be saved using a
    specified name.  (The name can be used to name the XML file, or be
    used to collate all data related to this scan in a sqlite database
    if that is what is used to save the data.)

  * The tool should be able to be used to answer questions about the
    data for a single scan like:
      * number of classes
      * list of all class names
      * list of methods in class Foo
      * count or list of items starting with "EVT_*"
      * list of items without docstrings that should have one
      * etc.

  * Once there are more than one scan saved then the diff tool can be
    used to highlight differences between them, such as the classes in
    scan A that are not in scan B. The methods that are in the Foo
    class in scan A that are not in the Foo class in scan B. Etc.

  * Since it is expected that some things will be missing on purpose
    there should be an easy way to tell the tool that when comparing
    scan A and scan B, or perhaps when comparing scan A with any
    subsequent scan, that it should ignore the fact that item X is
    missing and not report it.


Versioning the Back-end TOOLS
------------------------------

It would be nice if build.py (or one of the buildtools modules it
imports) was able to download from wxpython.org (or whereever) and use
specific verisons of sip or other back-end tools, so we can be sure
that the correct versions are being used for the build.  This will
make it easier for others who want to build and for keeping the
buildbots up to date, especially if we ever have to custom patch the
tools.

One idea that comes to mind is to rename the binaries such that they
include the platform and version number in the file names.  The
build.py script will have a hard-coded value for the desired verison
number, and before running the tool will check to see if there is a
{toolName}-{platform}-{verison} file in the ./bin folder.  If so then
that is what it will run.  If not then it will attempt to download it
and then run it.  An added benefit of this appraoch is that if we ever
need to rebuild old versions of Phoenix from an svn tag that depended
on features of an old version of a tool, then we're covered because
that verison of build.py will want to use the older verison of the
tool and will do so automatically.

  * Since this is downloading and executing code from the Internet
    then we should have some precautions in place to protect the
    user.  Is comparing the MD5 sum of the download with a value hard
    coded in build.py  good enough?

  * How should building on platforms that we have not made tool
    binaries available for be handled?  -- Perhaps just inform the
    user and instruct them to set an environment variable to a local
    binary to use instead.

  * How should failed downloads be handled?

  * 




other stuff
------------

  * wxComboBox: why are GetSelection. SetSelection and IsEmpty
    overloads being ignored?

  * wxListBox: All "Set" methods ignored, why?

  * textctrl: wxTextEntry and wxTextCompleter are in separate files

  * textctrl: add a renamed HitTest row/col overload

  * data buffer support for image RGB and alpha data

  * port all of the wxBitmap copy-to and copy-from buffer methods, and
    raw bitmap access routines from Classic

  * Come up with some way to implement the MustHaveApp check that
    Classic does.  It should raise an exception when something is
    created/used that should not be done before there is an application
    object.

  * Should the functions created for things like addCppMethod be
    marked static?  How about using inline?


  * dataobject --> dataobj
